[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to create
a life system, where our player dies,
respawns, dies, respawns, dies.
And then once they've died three times,
they go back to the main menu.
So let's jump in and get a game
session managing our player lives.
Okay, we have a goal, and our goal is that
our player has a certain number of lives.
For example,
we have a player with three lives, and
we restart the scene when the player dies.
But when all lives are lost,
it's game over, and
we have to restart the entire game.
And restarting the entire game
resets the lives and the score.
So pretty standard kind of
design in terms of player lives.
But the problem we face is that after
the death and the reloading of the scene,
that re-instantiates the player and
all other game objects.
So it resets their status.
And if we had the amount of lives
stored on the player, for example,
the player knows it currently has
two lives and we reset the scene,
then we restart wherever the starting
point of the lives of the player was.
So, if we have our
starting lives at three,
then it goes back to being three again.
So, in other words any progress with
the player or the scene is lost.
That is our current problem.
And the solution to this problem
is using a game session.
Some people would call it a game manager.
There's a lot [LAUGH] of articles
out there saying don't use
the word manager but this is,
if you see out there game manager,
then it's a similar thing with that we
are doing, we're calling it game session.
And so the game session is
an object that's responsible for
all of these things.
And we will have an object in our world,
it'll be called Game Session.
This'll be a game object in our hierarchy.
We'll have attached to that
the GameSession.cs script.
And this Game Session will be
responsible for Lives and Dying, and for
the Score, and for remembering
Level Progress, and Restarting the Game,
and All Other Persistent Data to do
with our particular game session.
That leaves on the game session
through the GameSession.cs.
It doesn't live on the player.
And it doesn't live under
any other elements, so
that's what we're gonna be
setting up in this lecture.
The first step for
that is to create a new game object.
We'll create an empty.
We'll call this GameSession.
GameSession I've accidentally
put underneath the player there.
We'll make sure it's on its own
level GameSession just here.
And the game session I'm going to reset
the transform on that starting point,
cool.
So we need to create a script
calling the same thing Game Session
that we do on here.
Create that new script and
fire up Visual Studio.
Now, the first thing we wanna tackle is
making our GameSession script a singleton.
So that means that if there
already is one that exists,
anytime a new one is instatiated,
it destroys itself.
So let's start by doing that.
Right at the top here,
we'll say void Awake.
So Awake is the very first
thing that can happen,
the very first time this script
wakes up or this class wakes up.
It will do this.
We want to create an integer,
create a variable which is the number
of game sessions that currently exist.
So we'll call this numGameSessions.
And that will = FineObjectsofType.
So be very careful to not
accidentally say ObjectOfType.
Say ObjectsOfType in here,
cuz we're looking within all
of the game's session objects.
GamesSession>().Length, cuz we wanna
know how many of them there are.
So we're saying this integer here,
numGameSessions,
it will be
FindObjectsOfType<gamesessions>().Length.
And then we created an if statement,
saying
basically if there is more than one,
then destroy this one we just created.
So if (numGameSessions
> 1) </gamesessions> so
there's more existing,
then we need to destroy this
particular game object that's
trying to create itself.
Don't allow it to do that.
else, what do we do if else?
Well if it's else,
then we say this is our singleton part,
DontDestroyOnload[gameObject), cool.
This is in here,
this is us using a singleton pattern.
There's not one specific exact way
that you use a singleton pattern.
This is one example of
using the singleton,
which is basically saying we only want
one of these things to be in existence.
Don't allow anything else to instantiate.
Just got the one Destroy,
if another one comes along,
otherwise, DontDestroyOnLoad,
this is the important part.
So when we say, restart the scene,
this particular instance
will continue to exist.
It won't be destroyed with everything else
that gets destroyed naturally when we
re-instantiate the scene.
Okay, or that gets recreated,
I should say.
Okay, so now what do we do?
We need to say what happens
when the player dies.
Well first of all,
let's give the players a certain
number of lives to start off with.
So we'll [SerializeField] here,
[SerializeField] int playerlives =
3; at the start, playerlives = 3.
Now, we need to say what happens
when a player loses a life.
We are not gonna use the update method
in this class, I believe, in the script.
And here we'll say, again,
we need to process the player death.
And this needs to be public, so
that other classes can trigger this,
can say, ProccessPlayerDeath().
At certain points in time,
they can say, hey,
the player just died,
can you please do what you need to do.
And it's in the GameSession
that manages that and says,
yep, I know exactly what we need
to do when the player dies.
So I've got that under control.
And here we need to say whether or
not the player has lives remaining, or
we need to restart the game.
So we'll say, if (playerLives > 1), so
if there's more than 1 life remaining,
then take a life.
And we'll define what that is in a moment,
so TakeLife*().
Otherwise, or if we write this correctly,
we'd say else.
Wouldn't type otherwise,
we just say otherwise but we type else.
We will do what we wanna reset
the overall game progress.
So we want the player to go all
the way back to the main menu and
reset the whole thing.
So we'll say ResetGameProgress.
Or reset game session is probably
a better, ResetGameSession,
cuz this is a game session we're creating.
Okay, I'm gonna create
the RecreateGameSession with you.
And I'll set as a challenge for
you to create the TakeLife method.
So, I'll factor this out down here.
We've got our private ResetGameSession.
This one is gonna be pretty simple.
It will be SeeManager.
And have we used, yes we are using,
no we're not using that yet.
So using UnityEngine.scenemanagement.
Okay, back down here scene manager,
SceneManager.LoadScene.
And which scene is it that we need to
load if we wanna reset the whole thing?
Well, we need to go back to the main menu,
and we know that is 0.
So rest the whole thing back there, and at
the same time, we need to make sure that
this particular instance is destroyed,
this particular game object.
So we're gonna say Destroy(gameObject);.
Okay, so let me just briefly recap what I
got here, then I'll set you the challenge.
We've said for our game session,
we need to know how many lives the player
starts with, which will be three.
As soon as we Awake,
we want to see how many of these
particular game sessions exist.
If there's all ready one around,
then destroy this new one
that's trying to create itself.
Otherwise, don't destroy this particular
one each time we load, so that this one
is going to continue to live, even if any
new ones that come along are destroyed.
And then, we're saying what
happens if the player dies?
Well, we need to process the player death.
We haven't actually
used that anywhere yet.
This is public and at some point,
very soon, we're gonna go in and
say when the player bumps into
the enemy or bumps in a hazard,
then we need to call this process player
death at that moment in our other script.
So we'll do that soon, but
for now, we're setting it up.
When that happens, well if the player
has more than one life, take a life and
continue on.
Otherwise, or else,
reset the whole game session.
What does reset the whole game session do?
Well, that means to load the main menu and
to destroy this particular game object.
And so the challenge for you is to
factor this out as a method here.
In the TakeLife, I'd like you to fill
in what needs to happen in here.
What happens when we take a life?
So to be clear, within this challenge
to process the player's death
reduce the number of lives and
reload the current scene.
So that should be reasonably straight
forward based upon what we've been doing
recently.
You have all the tools you need.
Jump in, take that on now,
process the player death.
And I'll see you back here
when you've given that a shot.
Okay, welcome back.
The first thing I'll do in here is I
will reduce the player's lives, so
player| lives --; that will just say take
the current amount and minus by one.
And then we need to load
the current scene, and
we did this in the previous video too.
We set up a variable which
we'll call the current
scene index, CurrentSceneIndex =
SceneManager.GetActiveScene().buildIndex;
so
that we know what
the current build index is.
And then, pretty simply,
we say scene manager,
SceneManager.loadscene.
And that will be the current scene index.
Okay, so we've done that previously.
I won't go into too much depth on that.
But that's just basically saying
reload the current scene,
and this is reduce the amount
of lives that we have.
So let's see if this works
at a functional level.
So the last step is to
make sure we're calling
ProcessPlayerDeath at least somewhere.
So let's go and
have a look where we can do that.
I think that would be,
I'm just gonna drag my script in here
while I'm running past my scripts.
And it will be in the Player,
we will see that,
and we have a spot in here
already set up for dying.
So when the player is dying,
what do we want to do?
Well pretty simply,
we add a new line down the end of this,
which we first of all need
to get the GameSession.
So the object of type,
we'll do that in here.
We do the FindObjectOfType, so
we find, we're not getting,
we're finding, FindObjectOfType.
And this is GameSession.
What will it be?
Well, it would be the thing we just
created, which is .ProcessPlayerDeath.
So now anytime the player touches
the enemy or the hazards,
we should be processing player death.
We'll save that, hop back into the game,
see if all these lines up, click play.
Now, in theory,
if the player jumps down into the water,
we should be triggering a death.
And then boom, there's no delay at the
moment, we're not using a code routine,
but it's immediately blonk back.
We can see our DontDestroyOnload here,
which has the game session contained
with it, and the player lives is too.
If I jump back down again,
blink, it goes down to one.
One more time, blink, goes back to
the start menu, the main menu back here.
So success, we've set up our script,
so that we have a singleton at the start,
back into game session here.
We have a singleton at the start, so there
can only be one of these game sessions.
But when we lose all of our lives,
we will start a new version,
new instance of this game session.
And we're decrementing the players lives,
and
we are reloading the same
when the player dies, and
reloading back to the main menu when
the player has lost all of their lives.
So, great work on this, well done.
Our game is coming together.
I'll see you in the next video.